# Reflecting on ST 558

ST558 has been an incredibly helpful course for my understanding of both of statistics and broader technical competencies (like general data manipulation and exploration) as well as R/RStudio. 

Reflecting on my initial blog post at the beginning of the semester, my perception of what data science is hasn’t changed. I still believe those occupations defined as statisticians and those defined as data science aren’t significantly different. As I noted in my first post, it does seem that statisticians have traditionally lacked the business consulting and presentation duties that data scientists seem to own. This, however, seems to be a function of culture and/or varying definitions of responsibilities among organizations employing statisticians rather than an explicit lack of fit or inability to perform the broader functions commonly associated with data science. That said, this is truly my first foray into data science as a discipline so as I continue to learn, my opinion may yet change. 

R/RStudio has proven to be a useful tool for conducting data science. I had experience with R coming into this course, but it was strictly limited to simple homework assignments in a previous statistics class. In fact, I don’t believe we even had to write code for importing or accessing data as it was provided for us – but rather the focus was on writing code to analyze data. I enjoyed taking a thorough (and necessary) dive into accessing/connecting to data, manipulating data, exploring data, automating processes and building interactive applications. It sounds like there are much more powerful options out there for data science, but given my prior experience using R, I had confidence that I could learn it easy (well, more easily than if it were Python or something of that nature). 

Now that I’ve better learned R/RStudio and have had practice using it, I am going to make a concerted effort to integrate use of it into my professional work. The nature of my job is such that I haven’t been required to use R or to do any meaningful statistical analysis or sophisticated data visualization, but I believe there’s value to be gained from doing so. Leadership at my company supports personal and professional growth so I know it will be well-received. Because RStudio is free, there aren’t any budgetary hurdles to be concerned about, so integrating into my work should be relatively quick.
