---
layout: post
title: What is data science? 
---

In a recent set of readings, I explored the definition of “data science” through the thoughts, ideas, and words of four different authors, each of which had varying levels of engagement with the data science realm. For me, the term “data science” has traditionally conveyed a vague sense of what it actually is in practical terms. After my recent readings, though, I’m better able to discern similarities and differences between data science (a somewhat new field) and more traditional disciplines – like statistics.

Its no surprise that there are competing views of what exactly a data scientist is given how quickly things evolve in the world of technology. The speed of change sometimes -- whether through completely new developments or through the convergence of existing competencies – leaves “new” occupations ill-defined. In a very simple, and yet vague “nutshell,” I would describe data science as being a broad practice within the even broader information technology space, that deals with the collection and analysis of data, as well as the delivery of insights derived from that data. At a more granular level, my readings suggest that data scientists should function similarly to business analysts with a statistics background – meaning, they should be able to liaise with various business units to understand their questions and needs, then gather and analyze the relevant data and use the results to drive action.

Some see statisticians and data scientists as one and the same, while others see a distinction between the two. It appears that the boundary of divergence is typically drawn around quantitative analysis; those that strictly do statistical analysis are statisticians, while those that are equipped to both analyze data AND consult on the findings are data scientists. To further muddy the waters, in some circumstances, a data scientist’s responsibilities may also include artificial intelligence, while others see this as a task of an machine learning engineer.

From my perspective, I see data science and statistics as very similar, more so than many of my readings would lead one to believe they are. The technical aptitudes required of a data scientists in many respects are applied statistics – the work that statisticians carry out. The extended responsibilities and competencies – business acumen, consulting, presenting – are soft skills that any good employee should have. Traditionally, statisticians may have lacked these competencies, but I feel that is a result of institutional culture and varied occupational requirements rather than an inherent lack of ability among statisticians. In my academic experience in econometrics and statistics, there’s always been an emphasis on driving the entire analytics life cycle – from collaborating with various business units to identify needs, to gathering and analyzing data, and delivering actionable insights. Based on my experience, I don’t see an exceedingly significant difference (pun intended!) between data science and statistics. However, time will continue to mold and better define the field of data science and what skills are required to become a data scientist.
